Ever since she'd discovered--but really discovered with a note of alarm--that she would die some day, then she no longer feared life, and, because of death, she had full rights: she'd risk everything. 

Eduardo had transformed her: he'd made her have eyes on the inside.

Few people have known plenitude. And, because plenitude is also an explosion, she and Eduardo had cowardly begun to live "normally." Because you can't prolong ecstasy without dying. They separated for a pointless, semi-invented reason. 

Sometimes she got depressed: she thought she was no good for anything.

Since Dona Maria Rita had always been an average person, she thought dying wasn't a normal thing. Dying was surprising. It was as if she wasn't up to the act of death, for nothing extraordinary had ever happened to her in her life up till now that could suddenly justify such an extraordinary fact. 

I'm not falling into the trap of thinking the right thing to do is be unhappy.

I'm abandoning that group of pseudo-intellectuals that used to demand from me a vain and nervous constant exercise of false and hasty intelligence. 

I need to kill someone inside me.

Angela Pralini had thoughts so deep there were no words to express them. It was a lie to say you could only have one thought at a time: she had many thoughts that intersected and were multiple. "Not to mention the 'subconscious' that explodes inside me, whether I want it to or you don't."

Coherence, I don't want it anymore. Coherence is mutilation. I want disorder.

To meditate, I took myself out of me first and I feel the void. It is in the void that one passes the time.

The life I had with Eduardo smelled like a freshly painted new pharmacy.

And as for the question of death? You musn't be afraid: go forward, always.
Always.

That Clarice made people uncomfortable.

I tried to read Joyce but stopped because he was boring, sorry, Eduardo. 

The air between Eduardo and her tasted like Saturday. And suddenly two of them were rare, rarity in the air. They felt rare, not part of the thousand people wandering the streets. The two of them were sometimes conspiratorial, they had a secret life because no one would understand them. And also because the rare ones are persecuted by the people who don't tolerate the insulting offense of those who are different. They hid their love so as not to wound the eyes of others with envy. So as not to wound them with a spark too luminous for the eyes. 